
# One-Stop

## OpenId-Lib
A library to support for Open-Id Connect authentication.
It supports for most common Open-Id Connect Providers, and is largely
configuration based; using common code to implement the boilerplate
functionality for Auth-Code authentication.

## Configuration
The enum AuthProvider lists the supported Open-Id Connect Providers;
others may be added.

Each Auth Provider implementation will have a set of configuration
properties (mapped to the AuthProvider enum) to establish how to establish
a connection (secret keys), exchange auth-codes and retrieve public keys
for JWT verification. Most of these configurations will be located in
the provider's own "well-known" configuration URL.

Each entry in the configuration is :
```
one-stop:
  auth:
    openid:
      GOOGLE:
        config-uri: 'https://accounts.google.com/.well-known/openid-configuration'
        client-id: '284564870769-e3qm0g1dgim9kjd1gp3qmia610evn88a.apps.googleusercontent.com'
        client-secret: 'a secret value generated by the auth-provider'
        redirect-uri: 'http://localhost/api/v1/auth/validate/google'

      GITLAB:
        config-uri: 'https://gitlab.com/.well-known/openid-configuration'
        client-id: '31673b3e2b7f9ab7992084452b178b45609b93278f77f4d312ad1cf6d246b981'
        client-secret: 'a secret value generated by the auth-provider'
        redirect-uri: 'http://localhost/api/v1/auth/validate/gitlab'
```
See com.hillayes.openid.OpenIdConfiguration for more detail.

## Adding a New Open-Id Connect Provider
For most providers only two classes need to be implemented; OpenIdFactory
and OpenIdAuth.

OpenIdFactory is a factory class for creating instances of the
openid-lib framework classes to support a given Auth Provider.
The instances will be added to the CDI context with the appropriate
NamedAuthProvider qualifier.

OpenIdAuth implements the auth-token exchange for a given Auth
Provider, utilising the qualified beans created by the OpenIdFactory.
It accepts the auth-code, supplied by the Auth Provider in the initial
stage of the auth-code flow, and exchanges it for an ID-Token (access and
refresh tokens are also included in the exchange response but these are
not used by the application). The ID-token is supplied as a signed JWT,
and its claims provide the information for the authenticated user.
This is parsed, and the signature verified using the Auth Provider's
public keys, before being returned to the caller.

The final part of the installation is to add the configuration
properties on the application.yaml (see above).

Possibly the simplest way of adding a new AuthProvider implementation
is to copy the package for an existing one (renaming the classes, etc.
as appropriate).

The redirect-uri in the configuration will be the same for each
Auth Provider implementation. Only the last element of the URI path
will differ. That element will be the value of the AuthProvider enum
value for the given implementation. That is used to allow our application
to select the correct Auth Provider implementation with which to
perform the auth-code token exchange.
